---
title: "Fixing blink.sh and mosh on macOS"
description: "Fixing disconnects in blink.sh using mosh when connecting to macOS" 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26
tags : [ "blink.sh", "ipad", "mosh", "cli", "macos", "sleep" ]
categories : ["fix", "ipad", "macos" ]
---

# Fixing Blink (blink.sh) mosh disconnects when accessing macOS 

## Background

After a couple of years I have recently restarting using my *Apple iPad Pro
12.9"* as my main computing  access device. I have used this setup before in
2017, for a couple of years, when I moved away from  laptops and desktops to
this more simplistic setup. Of course, these days there are lots of people
trying out the *iPad only* approach.

As one of my hobbies is programming, I still need to have access to a computer
that provides such an  environment for development. Luckily, this is simplistic
too - a command line shell and an editor, and of course the  language support
for whatever I am currently developing programs in. Back in 2017/2018 this
extra computer functionality was provided by a  *Raspberry Pi*, with a great
program called [Blink](https:// blink.sh) running on the *iPad* to access it.

It is now 2023, and I had evolved my computer use to *Apple M1* laptops and
**M1 mac Mini*. I still have the  Raspberry Pi*, but due to time constraints,
I just admin the Apple devices day to day, and the *Raspberry Pi* is off unless
needed.

## How Does Blink Get Used?

*Blink* is running on the *iPad* and can connect to a remote computer using
either *ssh* or  via *mosh*. *Blink* includes support for both. The *ssh*
protocol is still used with *mosh*, but *mosh* adds a seamless wrapper  around
a *ssh* connection to improve dramatically any connection issues. This ensures
the  *Blink* connection to the remote computer is maintained, even when the
application is not being used, or the network connectivity drops out.

To double protect the *Blink* session, I also run my shells on the remote
computer in [Zellij](https://zellij.dev) as well - which is a great replacement
for *screen* that I used to use. This ensures the programs I am running on
the remote computer  are maintained and can be re-accessed, should *Blink*
completely disconnect.

On the remote computer, *Zellij* and *mosh* need to be installed. If the remote
computer is running *macOS* or *Linux*, then the package manager should already
have them available. On macOS, they are both available  via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) 
using: `brew install zellij mosh`


## The Issue with Blink and mosh

When using *Blink* with **macOS Ventura** running on a *MacBook Pro M1* the
*mosh* shell would disconnect after a minute or so.

The time between successfully connecting with the *Blink* builtin *mosh*
client, to the *MacBook Pro M1* *mosh* server, and then it dropping would be
roughly a minute. The same would not happen when connecting via *ssh* directly
instead of *mosh*. This led me to believe it was a timeout somewhere that was
causing the automatic disconnect from the remote computer.

The cause turned out to be a setting found here in the laptop *macOS* settings:

**System Settings** -> **Displays** -> **Advanced** button -> option *Prevent automatic sleeping on power adaptor when the display is off* : **enable**

Once this was enabled the connection made via *mosh* to the laptop were very 
reliable again.

Of course it all makes sense once you have located the cause, but finding that
particular setting on the *MacBook Pro* took a few minutes. The fact a global
sleep setting for the computer was buried under the *display* preferences is
also odd in my view.

### Article Details

- Title: _{{ page.title }}_
- Published Date : {{ page.date | date: "%d %b %Y" }}
